# Evaluating Ames Housing Prices

## Problem Statement
It is my goal in this project to better predict the Ames, IA housing prices for investors. Finding a good value home to be able to renovate is a rising necessity in a world with rising housing prices. However, doing this is not always inuitive or clear, as there are many variables into determining the value of a home. This model should serve as an aid to determining these prices, so that you might find an opportunity between the value of a home and what it might sell for. To do this we must unearth the trappings of a home and its setting that determines its price.

## Methods Involved
-Data Exploration and Description
-Data Processing and Cleaning
-Statistical Modeling/Machine Learning
-Analysis


## Project Findings
Our model shows some decent scores and accuracy. It is able to explain nearly 90% of the Sale price of a home. Practically speaking, our model is able to predict within $27,299.33 of the actual sale price of the home. Going a bit beyond the more basic intuitions has helped our model significantly. However, it looks like dummifying non-numeric variables has helped us even more. As we can see many neighborhoods have very strong coefficients both positive and neighborhood. Our 10 most highly negatively correlated regressors are: Lot_Shape_IR3, Garage_Qual_Po, Neighborhood_BrDale, Neighborhood_Edwards, Kitchen AbvGr, Neighborhood_MeadowV, Neighborhood_Blueste, Exter_Qual_Fa, Neighborhood_IDOTRR, Neighborhood_NWAmes. While our 10 most highly positively correlated regressors are: Neighborhood_GrnHill, Neighborhood_StoneBr, Exter Qual_Ex, Neighborhood_NoRidge, House Style_2.5Fin, Garage Qual_Ex, Neighborhood_NridgHt, Condition 1_PosN, Lot Shape_IR2, Bsmt Qual_Ex. Of our 20 most significant regressors 10 of them happen to be neighborhoods. Place matters significantly when determining the price of a house; in fact place is able to explain as much as $99,331 of the price as in the case of Neighborhood_GrnHill. Perhaps most surprising was the relatively small interaction between total square footage and price. With Total SF having a coefficient of 7.848514330018588, meaning for every increase in overall square footage, there is only around an $8 increase in price. Number of fireplaces and garage area and quality had significantly higher coefficients, of around $7,072, $10,348, and $10,629 respectively. This is perhaps explained by higher overall quality homes are more likely to have these things, so there is more than likely some adjustments that could be made to drop a few variables, as our model showed slight signs of overfitting, albeit not severe. 

Overall, I am very pleased with our model and its ability to predict beyond what the eye can see. Within context, none of the variables seem to be too surprising but there does seem to be room for improvement by perhaps dummifying even more variables. I did choose to drop quite a few variables that seemed to be slight, or that would have been proxied by other features. This was done in effort to prevent overfitting. But going forward I would like to do some more data filtering to better handle possible outliers, and then apply similar metrics. 


## Business Recommendations
Since this data is local to Ames, IA, it would be very difficult to extrapolate too much to other areas. However, we could take the general theme that neighborhood might be the most singularly important consideration when appraising value of property, and that seems reasonable to hold true elsewhere. Otherwise, things like fireplace might not have the same surprising value in a place like Florida, as a fireplace is unlikely to be needed in Florida compared to Iowa. The same might be true for garage value, while these days most homes come fit with garages, the value it adds to a home might be overstated in Iowa where inclement whether is more likely compared to other regions of the country. In Ames, IA, however, I would suggest trying to buy in the nicest neighborhood one could afford and trying to find a home on a cul-de-sac with a nice fireplace. Finding one with poorer exterior quality and poor garage quality might even be able to save you significant money!
